Alexandre Morin: Hello,
my name is Alexandre Morin,
and I'm a senior
consulting engineer
supporting enterprise and
education customers worldwide
and sometimes just beyond.
I specialize in device
and content management
and I'm excited to tell you
about deploying iOS 15
and iPadOS 15
in your environment.
iOS 15 brings new ways
to stay connected,
powerful tools to help you
focus on tasks,
exciting updates for Maps,
and new privacy features
improve transparency
and give you more control
over your data.
With iPadOS 15,
it's easier to get things done
and find and organize
information,
and multitasking is also
easier to use and discover.
You can now place widgets among
the apps on your Home screen
and jot down a comment or idea
on any app or screen
with Quick Note.
iOS 15 and iPadOS 15 also
bring updates specifically
for device management,
which improve the way you deploy
and manage devices
in an education
or enterprise environment.
At WWDC 2021, a number
of sessions brought you details
on these updates
and new capabilities.
"What's new in managing
Apple devices"
is a great starting point
for these sessions.
My colleagues Graham
and Nadia introduce you
to the refreshed device
management experience
in Settings and essential
new management controls
like Managed Pasteboard.
In this session, we'll go
through fundamentals
of deploying iOS and iPadOS
devices at scale
and a few new device management
updates since WWDC 2021.
The technology underlying
all the management capabilities
we will discuss today
is Mobile Device Management,
or MDM.
It is a framework we made
available to developers
to create
device management solutions.
These solutions may differ in
user interface and market focus,
but they all work from the same
set of Apple-defined APIs.
The first key decisions when
bringing iOS and iPadOS devices
into your organization
are the device ownership model
and the connectivity options.
Who owns the device
has a big impact
on the device management
capabilities available to you.
If you choose to purchase
devices and provide them
to your employees or students,
you'll have the most complete
set of management capabilities
for those devices.
You might choose to provide
one to each user --
referred to as
a one-to-one deployment --
or devices can be
rotated among users,
which is referred to
as a shared deployment.
If you're instead supporting
user-owned devices,
you'll have a more limited set
of management capabilities
that provide more control
to the owner of the device.
The second initial decision
is the type of connectivity
to provide to those devices.
Whether the devices
are organization-owned
or user-owned,
you may choose
to provide cellular service
for those devices
in addition to Wi-Fi.
You may even be interested
in a private cellular network
or an emergency services option.
On iPad, providing cellular
connectivity can transform
the usage patterns
of your employees or students,
such as with the new iPad mini
which supports 5G.
When deploying
cellular-enabled devices,
you'll need to consider the type
of SIM that will be used:
a physical SIM or an eSIM.
Unlike physical SIMs,
which are easily removed
and are prone to theft or loss,
eSIMs are software based
and can be locked on the device
with an MDM restriction.
They are also much easier
to deploy at scale
since they can be installed
on hundreds, thousands,
or tens of thousands
of devices using MDM.
This is much more efficient
and cost-effective
than physically inserting SIMs.
Another advantage
of eSIM technology
is that you can use MDM
to try out or change carriers
in your environment without
having to get new SIM cards
and physical access
to each device.
Because of these benefits,
eSIMs are ideal
for deploying large numbers
of cellular-enabled devices.
Recent iPhone models
support Dual SIM,
which allows you to have
two voice lines active at once.
This could be a business
and a personal line,
or two business lines
with different carriers
for employees out in the field,
like first responders
or field workers.
Typically, this is enabled with
a physical SIM and an eSIM.
iPhone 13 has support
for dual eSIM,
giving you even more flexibility
in your cellular deployment.
You can provision one or both
for your users with MDM
or let users manage
one of those two eSIMs
as their needs change.
Once you've selected
an ownership model
and device connectivity options,
you need to deploy
and manage these devices.
Since all aspects of your
deployment will be driven
by whether you or the user
owns the device,
we will cover those
two scenarios separately.
First let's review
deploying devices
that your organization
has purchased
and will provide
to the employee or student.
We will cover these four areas,
which come together to form
a great deployment strategy:
enrollment, ongoing management,
content, and redeployment.
Let's start with enrollment
for your
organization-owned devices.
The best enrollment experience
for organization-owned devices
is Automated Device Enrollment.
It allows for zero-touch
deployment workflows
for your devices.
Devices going through
Automated Device Enrollment
are automatically supervised,
which gives you access
to the entirety
of the management options
defined by Apple.
This method allows you
to customize enrollment
based on your needs.
You can display custom branding
or consent text.
You can also secure
the device setup process
using modern authentication
services such as Azure AD,
Okta, Ping, and others.
Finally you can choose to skip
some setup assistant screens
including the screens shown
after a software update --
which, I should note,
will also skip those screens
for any future software updates,
a great feature for
unattended devices like kiosks.
Note that this is
the only enrollment method
that prevents users
from removing management.
This process is all enabled
with a web-based portal
called Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager.
The devices you purchase
from Apple
or authorized resellers
appear there
and can be automatically
assigned to your MDM server.
When your devices are
unboxed and activated,
this portal will instruct them
to enroll to your MDM
and apply the enrollment
settings you define in MDM.
If you have devices
that you acquired
outside of Apple
or authorized resellers,
you can manually add iPhone,
iPad, and Apple TV devices
to Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager
with Apple Configurator 2
on Mac.
When manually adding devices,
there is a 30-day
provisional period
during which the user
may opt out
and remove the device
from management.
After the 30 days expire,
the device is permanently added.
Once the devices are
in Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager,
they'll follow enrollment
settings that you've defined
in your MDM.
A one-to-one device
will typically be set up
by the end user
right out of the box.
This is where
the ability to skip
specific setup assistant screens
makes the setup smoother
for the user.
After selecting language
and country,
enrollment to MDM is integrated
right into the familiar
setup assistant experience.
For a device that will rotate
between users,
you may use enrollment settings
to enable Shared iPad.
This feature enables you
to provide
a personalized experience
to each student or employee
who uses
the shared device,
much like they would have
on a one-to-one device.
For all deployment types,
Apple Configurator 2
helps to make initial
device-provisioning operations
smoother and faster.
You can provision dozens
of devices at a time
without ever having
to touch the glass.
If you do not have access
to Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager
in your area,
there is an alternative to
Automated Device Enrollment
which is called
Device Enrollment.
It can allow you to still
be able to deploy
the devices you own
in a strongly managed way.
To achieve this,
you use Apple Configurator 2
to enable supervision
on your devices over USB
and use Device Enrollment
to enroll them to MDM.
Both can be done
as a single operation
with Apple Configurator 2.
You will not benefit
from the lock MDM feature
that comes with
Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager
enrollments,
but you will still benefit
from most of the features
we're reviewing.
Now that devices
you own are enrolled,
let's talk about
ongoing management.
As we discussed earlier,
MDM management is built
right into the operating system
of every iOS and iPadOS device.
The Settings app makes it clear
to both your users and yourself
as to the management state
of the device
and what MDM capabilities
are in use.
Those capabilities can be
classified as payloads,
restrictions, tasks, or queries.
Configuration profiles consist
of payloads that load settings
and authorization information
onto Apple devices.
This automates the configuration
of settings, accounts,
restrictions, and credentials.
With these different
payload types,
you can enforce
passcode policies,
restrict access to the Camera
in sensitive environments,
or deploy custom fonts.
Mail, Contacts, and Calendar
account information
can be configured for users.
Network information like Wi-Fi
and VPN can be set up
for your devices,
as well as the certificates
required for those connections.
Some of the most important MDM
payloads for your deployments
are restrictions.
They allow you to enforce
your security policies
and help users
stay focused on their task.
Commonly used restrictions
allow you to lock device names,
disable iCloud services
or the App Store,
which prevents users from
installing third-party apps.
But even then, you are still
able to deploy apps with MDM.
You can even hide or show
any apps you want
on the Home screen,
be they third-party apps
or most system apps.
At WWDC we announced
a new restriction
called Managed Pasteboard that
supplements Managed Open In.
Managed Open In prevents
attachments or documents
from managed sources
from being accidentally opened
in unmanaged destinations
and vice versa.
For example,
a confidential email attachment
is not allowed to be opened
in a user's personal apps.
And mirroring that behavior,
you may also prevent
their personal document
from accidentally entering
the organizational data stream.
We announced
iCloud Private Relay at WWDC
as a way to enhance user privacy
and help users' traffic
stay private.
And new since WWDC,
we introduced
a supervised restriction
to allow you to disable
iCloud Private Relay
on your devices.
At the time, we also let
network administrators know
that they could
restrict this feature
by returning
a negative DNS response
for mask.icloud.com.
Since then,
we added a second host:
mask-h2.icloud.com.
Let's detail a few more
helpful restriction examples.
Managing USB pairing
is important for securing access
to a device over
a physical connection
but also to allow access
for IT tasks
like gathering logs.
Historically, IT admins have
used an enrollment setting
to prevent any connections
of USB.
This method is deprecated
and there is a more modern
and flexible method
available to you:
the supervised
allowHostPairing restriction.
With this restriction in place,
only computers that possess
the same supervision identity
as your iOS and iPadOS devices
will be allowed access over USB.
The main advantage to this
method is that you do not need
to restore devices
to change these settings.
If you need access,
you're not locked out.
Finally, you've likely already
had users ask for help
in clearing their device
passcode after they forgot it.
If the user has restarted
their Wi-Fi-only device
since the last time
they successfully unlocked it,
the Wi-Fi credentials
remain encrypted,
the device is off-network,
and MDM cannot reach it
to send a clear
passcode command.
An Ethernet adapter can be
quite useful in this scenario.
If you have previously disabled
USBRestrictedMode,
the Ethernet connection
will be active at this stage
and the clear passcode command
will reach the device
successfully.
This is one example
of weighing the security
benefits of a restriction
versus the related
support considerations.
Sometimes full lockdown
can be detrimental.
A device enrolled in MDM
can also be administered
through a number
of direct management tasks,
giving you powerful
remote capabilities.
Management task can take
specific actions on devices
like installing apps,
remotely wiping a device,
or installing a software update.
Tasks to highlight here are
Lost Mode and Activation Lock.
For locating
lost or misplaced devices,
you have Managed Lost Mode.
You use MDM to place a device
directly in Lost Mode.
During this time,
MDM can collect location
information for the device
or make it emit
an audible alert.
The device is locked
with a customized message
with contact information
for your organization,
so anyone finding the device is
aware that it is being tracked.
And after MDM takes the device
out of Lost Mode,
the Lock Screen displays
a message informing the user
that this device has been
geolocated and when.
Most importantly, Lost Mode
does not require the user
to use iCloud or to grant access
to Location Services.
Actually, Location Services
can be turned off
and Lost Mode will still work.
The privacy notifications
of Lost Mode strike a balance
between user privacy
and IT control.
Theft deterrence is made easy
for Apple School Manager or
Apple Business Manager devices
with device-based
Activation Lock.
By leveraging device-based
Activation Lock,
MDM enables or disables
Activation Lock
directly with Apple's servers
without the need to interact
with the device
or a user's iCloud account.
For devices you own,
you should use this exclusively
and not allow users
to Activation Lock your devices
with their iCloud account.
If you do let users leverage
user-based Activation Lock,
MDM can still gather
a bypass code
and use it to clear
Activation Lock
with a command
sent to the device.
MDM can query
your managed devices
so you can check their status
and ensure they meet
your compliance standards.
The inventory updates
sent to your MDM
enable you to get the name
of your devices,
which can also be
remotely set and locked.
Battery level data
can help you get a sense
of your user's ability to get
all-day battery life,
and roaming status
can help alert you
to potentially costly
cellular charges.
And of course, compliance
through passcode requirements
helps ensure that
your devices and data
are secured
with data protection.
Many of your device
management goals are achieved
when your MDM solution
combines a set of restrictions,
queries, and tasks,
such as in the critical case
of managing and deploying
software updates.
In "Manage software updates
in your organization"
my colleague Lucy covered
software update management.
Let's review and add
a few additional details
as you prepare to deploy iOS 15.
When a beta software update
is released,
you use AppleSeed for IT
to obtain it
and test it in your environment.
AppleSeed for IT
is a great way to access
IT-specific release notes
and test plans
and file direct feedback.
Learn more about AppleSeed
for IT in a WWDC 2020 session.
If you require more time
to validate the software update
in your environment
than the beta cycle,
you can defer updates
for up to 90 days.
On iOS and iPadOS,
all updates have
the same deferral value
applied to them.
Deferral means that updates
that would otherwise
be shown to the user in Settings
are instead hidden
until the deferral window
expires.
Deferral does not affect
the ability to update a device
using MDM commands,
Apple Configurator 2,
or the macOS Finder.
You can use MDM
to install the latest OS
or a specific OS version
on your supervised devices,
even while the deferred update
is hidden from the user.
And new since WWDC 2021,
you can now defer beta updates
to test your deferral workflow
during the beta cycle
instead of needing to wait
for a public release.
When you're ready
to update devices
and you send an MDM
install command,
the device prompts the user
with the update
and describes it as required
by your organization.
All updates sent by MDM
are treated as required updates
and can only be delayed
by the user up to three times.
After the third time
the user delays,
the device will require
the user to update
in order to continue
to use the device
with the exception
of emergency calling.
Any update on a device
with a passcode
requires the user to enter it
for authorization.
Starting with iOS and iPadOS 15,
users running iOS
and iPadOS 14.5 and later
may now see
the option to choose
between two software update
versions.
This allows users to update
to the latest version of iOS
and iPadOS 15
as soon as it is released.
Or they can continue on iOS
and iPadOS 14
and still get important
security updates.
The choices will be available
for a period of time.
MDM can control
which options are offered
with the new
RecommendationCadence key
in the Settings command.
And of course,
these update options
will respect the software update
deferral window you have set.
With a RecommendationCadence
of 0,
the user is presented
with the option to update
to iOS 14 or iOS 15 releases.
With a RecommendationCadence
of 1,
the user is only presented
the option to update
to iOS 14 releases.
And with a RecommendationCadence
of 2,
the user is only presented
the option to update
to iOS 15 releases.
In each case, any deferral
policy you set is respected.
While your MDM solution
works to add support
for these update options,
you may also be able to send
a custom command provided here
to set the RecommendationCadence
on your devices.
I mentioned Shared iPad before
and wanted to give you
a little more detail
on what to consider
when enabling Shared iPad.
Users sign in with the
Managed Apple ID that you create
in Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager,
If you're
an education organization,
you can sync with
your student information system
to automatically create
the Managed Apple IDs,
or if you use
Azure Active Directory,
you can federate to leverage
existing credentials.
For users without credentials,
temporary session provides them
a way to log into Shared iPad
and leave no data behind.
Shared iPad works
with content caching,
which we'll describe soon
when we review
getting content on the device.
You can also use
tethered caching
where a Mac is providing
content caching
and Ethernet connectivity
over USB
to a cart of
Shared iPad devices,
offloading your Wi-Fi network
from app and iPad OS
update traffic.
Now that your devices
are enrolled and managed,
let's look at deploying content.
You'll provide apps and books
to your employees or students
using Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager,
where you obtain
content licenses.
You can purchase licenses
for third-party App Store apps,
books from Apple Books,
and custom apps.
Custom apps are made
specifically for you
by internal
or external developers,
only you can purchase them
in Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager,
and these apps
are hosted by Apple
but they're not available
to the general public.
Apple provides both device-based
and user-based app distribution.
For organization-owned devices,
you should use
device-based app distribution.
Once you acquire the licenses,
you use MDM to assign
and distribute apps
directly to a device.
This does not require you
to configure an Apple ID
on each device or send
an invitation to each user.
You maintain full ownership
of the app licenses
and can revoke them
from the device
and reassign them
to different devices.
To provide your users
with a great experience
and reduce network slowdowns,
enable content caching
on your network.
This service is built
into macOS
and allows you to cache commonly
downloaded assets locally.
You can cache assets
such as App Store apps,
books, or iCloud content,
which is helpful
when Shared iPad
is syncing user content.
And perhaps the most helpful
is the ability
to cache software updates
for when MDM
or users update devices
on your network.
To have a successful
and scalable
one-to-one deployment,
limit the number of apps
deployed initially
to one or a few.
This way, you provide initial
access and productivity
quickly for your users
while giving them control
of installing additional apps
on their device
as the need arises.
This also moves the majority
of your app deployment traffic
out of band,
distributing that traffic
over time
and different networks.
For Shared iPad deployments,
user-driven app installs
are not recommended.
You want to install all apps
to all Shared iPad devices
and then use the MDM
show/hide apps payload
to tailor the app selection
for the needs of each user,
based on group membership.
This avoids delays caused
by the need to install apps
each time users log in.
Now that you know how to manage
content for your devices,
let's review how to redeploy
or repurpose devices.
When redeploying
or repurposing devices,
you want to ensure that
your organization's data
and user data are
securely erased.
With the device in hand,
you or the user can use
the Erase All Content
and Settings option
in Settings to obliterate
all of the encryption keys,
rendering all user data
on the device
cryptographically inaccessible.
It's an ideal way to be sure
all personal information
is removed from a device before
giving it to somebody else,
returning it for service,
or turning it in for an upgrade.
This can also be done
using Apple Configurator 2,
the macOS Finder,
or the remote wipe MDM command.
So far, we've reviewed
four key areas of deployment
for devices that
your organization purchases
and provides to employees
or students.
You may instead need to manage
user-owned devices
or have a mix of both.
Let's examine these same
four deployment phases
for user-owned devices.
As before, it starts
with enrollment.
For user-owned devices,
there's User Enrollment.
User Enrollment is
designed specifically
for when employees or students
bring their own devices
to use inside your organization.
You use User Enrollment
to protect the privacy
of personal data
while still securing
your organization's data
on the device.
My colleagues Timm and Melissa
introduced major improvements
to the onboarding
and authentication capabilities
of User Enrollment
in the "Discover account-driven
User Enrollment" session
at WWDC21.
Let's go over the basics
of User Enrollment
and add some more details
to that session's great content.
User Enrollment requires
Managed Apple IDs.
These IDs are owned and managed
by the organization
and provide access
to Apple services
such as iCloud.
You can use federation
or SIS sync
to provide these
to your users.
In User Enrollment,
Managed Apple IDs are used
in addition
to a personal Apple ID.
Managed and unmanaged apps
use the correct iCloud account
automatically.
Data separation ensures
your data and the user's
are isolated from each other
in distinct, cryptographically
separated APFS volumes.
In iOS and iPadOS 15,
there are new updates
to User Enrollment that make it
better than ever
to support personal devices.
Much like in Automated
Device Enrollment,
where we leverage the familiar
setup assistant experience,
iOS 15 and iPadOS 15
use a similar approach
to streamline
the User Enrollment process.
Users are used to setting up
accounts and settings,
so initiating User Enrollment
will be intuitive for them.
If you are unable to provide
Managed Apple IDs to your users,
or do not have access
to Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager,
another option for enrolling
user-owned devices
is Device Enrollment.
This enrollment type offers
less user privacy
than User Enrollment,
so users may be more careful
in their decision
to enroll to your MDM
on their personal devices.
When given the option
between the two,
choose User Enrollment.
Once your users have chosen
to enroll their personal devices
to your MDM,
you then have a specific set
of management capabilities
available to you.
User Enrollment management
capabilities are curated
specifically for BYOD,
so you can configure
your corporate accounts
and VPN settings,
and you may require passcodes
on the user's device,
but the policy may not
require very long
and overly complex passcodes.
You can deploy managed apps
but cannot take over
a user's own apps.
With these capabilities,
you can get details
about MDM-installed apps
but not about personal apps.
You cannot access
personal information,
a user's location,
or remotely wipe
the user's entire device.
But you do have the ability
to remove your organization's
apps, accounts,
and data at any time.
This is how User Enrollment
balances user privacy
with the need
to secure your data.
User Enrollment fully supports
Managed Open In
so you benefit from
the same strong
data flow management
capabilities
offered on
organizational devices,
including the new
Managed Pasteboard
to help users avoid
mistakenly moving data
across the Managed Open In
boundaries.
User Enrollment allows
the user to log in
with their personal Apple ID
alongside their
Managed Apple ID.
So encourage users
to enable Find My
for them to personally manage
a lost or misplaced device.
And the same goes
for Activation Lock.
They own the device
and they control the keys
to locking their device.
Those were
the management capabilities
that you get with
User Enrollment.
Let's discuss content
deployment for these devices.
As with the devices you own,
you can purchase licenses
in the apps and books section
of Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager.
For organization-owned devices,
you have device-based
app distribution;
for User Enrollment devices,
you assign licenses
to the user's
Managed Apple ID.
The user will need
to approve the installation
on their device,
but as the Managed Apple ID
and licenses are from the same
Apple School Manager
or Apple Business Manager,
there are no additional
Terms and Conditions prompts.
You still retain full ownership
of the app licenses
and can reuse them at will.
To help with getting
a key app installed
on your user-owned devices,
at WWDC21, we announced
Required App.
If you have one app that you
want to ensure is installed --
like an app catalog
or a VPN app --
Required App allows you
to specify
that you would like it
to be installed silently
on these unsupervised devices,
and this also works
with custom apps.
And to keep key
managed apps installed
on user-enrolled devices,
you can mark them
as nonremovable.
The user will be alerted
when attempting
to remove these apps.
Consider this for self-service,
MDM-agent apps,
or other critical apps
and to complete the deployment
for user-owned devices,
or scenarios such as when users
are upgrading their device
or leaving the organization.
Whatever the reason,
there will come a time
where user-owned devices
will need to be removed
from management.
The user can process
this unenrollment themselves
on their device in Settings.
You can also process
this unenrollment using MDM.
Additionally, a device being
repurposed might be erased
with Erase All Content
and Settings,
Apple Configurator 2,
or Finder,
which will effectively
unenroll the device.
If the employee or student is
instead moving to a new device,
only their personal data
will be migrated.
Once their new device is set up,
they will proceed to do
a fresh MDM enrollment on it,
and they are back up
and running.
We've now covered
the four key areas
for both organization-owed
and user-owned devices.
Now let's review some resources
that may be helpful
in your iOS and iPadOS 15
deployment.
As a reminder, AppleSeed for IT,
which we covered earlier,
allows you to access
and download
prerelease Apple software
for testing in your environment,
includes detailed test plans,
and puts your feedback
submissions
into a dedicated queue
for enterprise and education.
Apple School Manager and
Apple Business Manager guides
are available to help you manage
users' devices and content.
The Apple Device
Deployment Reference
is a technical document on
the topics we covered today
and supporting information
about MDM, infrastructure,
and services integration.
The Apple Platform Security
documentation
provides security information
about all software,
hardware, and services
across the Apple platforms.
And the AppleCare
Professional Support website
hosts program information
for each of the AppleCare
OS support offerings
for IT departments
and IT help desks,
including AppleCare
for Enterprise.
We're excited to see you
successfully deploy iOS
and iPadOS in your environment.
Thank you for watching.